lifx_dash(1) -- Toggle LIFX lights with an Amazon Dash button
=============================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`lifx_dash` `monitor` -m DASH_MAC_ADDRESS -t LIFX_API_TOKEN<br>
`lifx_dash` `snoop`<br>
`lifx_dash` `config`

## DESCRIPTION

**lifx_dash** is a simple command-line tool to monitor your network for Amazon
Dash button presses and toggle LIFX lights ON and OFF. The tool provides two
commands, `monitor` and `snoop`.

Use `snoop` to listen for Dash presses on your network, and identify the
button's MAC address.

Use `monitor` (with a MAC address and LIFX HTTP API token) to respond to
presses, and toggle your lights ON and OFF. You can optionally pass a bulb
selector, or choose to daemonize the `monitor` process.

A `config` command also exists, allowing you to set default options for
`monitor` and `snoop`.

## REQUIREMENTS

`lifx_dash` requires at least one LIFX bulb, and any Amazon Dash button. You
will also need a wifi network and root access to sniff packets on your network
adaptor.

Follow Amazon's Dash button setup steps, but **stop** before choosing a product
to purchase. Pressing the button should pulse white while connecting to wi-fi,
then flash orange. If necessary, you can [factory
reset](https://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.html?nodeId=201746400)
your button and start the setup from scratch.

You will also need a free LIFX API token from here:
[https://cloud.lifx.com/settings](https://cloud.lifx.com/settings)

## OPTIONS

The snoop command has one optional flag - the network interface to listen on.

* `-i`, `--iface=arg`: Network Interface (default: en0)

The `monitor` command accepts the following flags, both a mac address and api
token are required.

* `-m`, `--mac-address=arg`: Dash button MAC Address (required)
* `-t`, `--token=arg`: LIFX HTTP API Token (required)
* `-s`, `--selector=arg`:  LIFX Bulb Selector (default: all)
* `-i`, `--iface=arg`: Network Interface (default: en0)
* `-d`, `--[no-]daemonize`: Dameonize the monitor process (default: no)
* `-l`, `--log-file`: Log file location (when running as a daemon) (default: /tmp/lifx_dash.log)

## EXAMPLES

Get help on command options and arguments

    $ lifx_dash -h
    $ lifx_dash monitor -h
    $ lifx_dash snoop --help

Snoop for Dash button presses on en1

    $ lifx_dash snoop en1

Monitor Dash button presses on en0 with DASH_MAC_ADDRESS and LIFX_API_TOKEN,
when pressed, toggle all lights

    $ lifx_dash monitor -t LIFX_API_TOKEN -m DASH_MAC_ADDRESS

Monitor Dash button presses on en1 with a DASH_MAC_ADDRESS and LIFX_API_TOKEN,
when pressed toggle the light with id 'd3b2f2d97459'

    $ lifx_dash monitor --token=LIFX_API_TOKEN --mac-address=DASH_MAC_ADDRESS -s 'd3b2f2d97459' -i en1

Show the current configuration file options

    $ lifx_dash config -s

## FILES

Use the `config` command to set values for the command options. These will be
saved to: ~/.lifx_dash.rc.yml and used as defaults. They can still be overridden
by any arguments passed on the command line.

If running as a daemon (-d switch), the `lifx_dash monitor` command will log to
`/tmp/lifx_dash.log` by default. Use the --log-file flag to override this.

## BUGS

No known bugs. Please report issues here:
[https://github.com/matthutchinson/lifx_dash/issues](https://github.com/matthutchinson/lifx_dash/issues)

## LICENSE

The MIT License:
[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/matthutchinson/lifx_dash/master/LICENSE.txt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/matthutchinson/lifx_dash/master/LICENSE.txt)

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2016 Matthew Hutchinson

## AUTHOR

Matthew Hutchinson, [https://matthewhutchinson.net](https://matthewhutchinson.net)

## SEE ALSO

* [https://rubygems.org/gems/lifx_dash](https://rubygems.org/gems/lifx_dash)
* [https://github.com/matthutchinson/lifx_dash](https://github.com/matthutchinson/lifx_dash)
* [https://cloud.lifx.com/settings](https://cloud.lifx.com/settings)
* [http://tinyurl.com/zujfkjs](http://tinyurl.com/zujfkjs)
